feat(ai-monitoring): Langchain integration docs (#9799)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/python/integrations/langchain/index.mdx

---
title: Langchain
description: "Learn about using Sentry for Langchain."
---

This integration connects Sentry with [Langchain](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain).
The integration has been confirmed to work with Langchain 0.1.11.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI and the appropriate langchain packages:

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk' 'langchain-openai' 'langchain-core'
```

## Configure

If you have the `langchain` package in your dependencies, the Langchain integration will be enabled automatically when you initialize the Sentry SDK.

> An additional dependency, `tiktoken`, is required if you want to calculate token usage for streaming chat responses.

Reviewer: Can we add this to the code sample below?

Author: It just needs to be installed, no code change.

    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
    send_default_pii=True, # send personally-identifiable information like LLM responses to sentry
)

llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-3.5-turbo-0125", temperature=0)
```

## Verify

Verify that the integration works by inducing an error:

```python
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init(...)  # same as above

llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-3.5-turbo-0125", temperature=0, api_key="bad API key")
with sentry_sdk.start_transaction(op="ai-inference", name="The result of the AI inference"):
    response = llm.invoke([("system", "What is the capital of paris?")])
    print(response)
```

After running this script, a transaction will be created in the Performance section of [sentry.io](https://sentry.io). Additionally, an error event (about the bad API key) will be sent to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) and will be connected to the transaction.

It may take a couple of moments for the data to appear in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).

## Behavior

- The Langchain integration will connect Sentry with Langchain and automatically monitor all LLM, tool, and function calls.

- All exceptions in the execution of the chain are reported.

> - Sentry by default considers LLM and tokenizer inputs/outputs as PII. If you want to include them, set `send_default_pii=True` in the `sentry_sdk.init()` call. To explicitly exclude prompts and outputs despite `send_default_pii=True`, configure the integration with `include_prompts=False` as shown in the [Options section](#options) below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sentry considers LLM and tokenizer inputs/outputs as PII and, by default, does not include PII data. If you want include the data, then set `send_default_pii=True` in the `sentry_sdk.init()` call. To explicitly exclude prompts and outputs despite `send_default_pii=True`, configure the integration with `include_prompts=False` as shown in the [Options section](#options) below.
```
I think when we say "by default" here, we're actually talking about the default behavior of how we treat PII (it's not included/sent), and that's the default behavior we're changing (sending the PII). 

I think the word "include" is also vague. Would it be more accurate to talk about this as data scrubbing? e.g. "Sentry considers LLM and tokenizer inputs/outputs as PII and, by default, scrubs PII data. If you want to send the data unscrubbed, then set `send_default_pii=True` in the `sentry_sdk.init()` call."

> - Sentry is configured not to consider LLM and tokenizer inputs/outputs as PII. If you want to include them, set `send_default_pii=True` in the `sentry_sdk.init()` call. To explicitly exclude prompts despite `send_default_pii=True`, configure the integration with `include_prompts=False` like in the Options section.

Author: reworded

## Options

> By adding `LangchainIntegration` to your `sentry_sdk.init()` call explicitly, you can set options for `LangchainIntegration` to change its behavior:

Author: It is the only option for now.
